Hi everyone and welcome to this week's
Stellar developer meeting. This week at
Stellar we just concluded the the latest
cohort  in the incubator collaboration
cohort in the incubator collaboration
we have with Draperu and  I thought
we have with Draperu and I thought
since we just wrapped this up and 20
teams
graduated from from the incubator
program I thought it could be
interesting to invite someone who went
through the program last year. So today
I have I have the the founder of
Flashback in the studio. So yeah, please
introduce yourself and let us know what
you're working on.
>> Hello guys. so my name is Briu
>> Hello guys. so my name is Briu
so co-ounder of flashback and  so
so co-ounder of flashback and so
yeah we were part of this first and
initial batch for  the draper cross
initial batch for the draper cross
ster  unbug program  which was I
ster unbug program which was I
think between yeah November 2024 to
February 2025
and so yeah some just a bit of
background about myself. So I have PhD
in computer science mainly in machine
learning artificial intelligence.  so
learning artificial intelligence. so
I did that for seven eight years.  big
I did that for seven eight years. big
patient with in AI and all you can use
AI you know with cloud technologies and
the fact that today AI is very related
to cloud technologies.  I got very
to cloud technologies. I got very
curious about  what we call the
curious about what we call the
decentralized physical infrastructure
network  the cloud storage cloud
network the cloud storage cloud
computing sovereignty data protection
etc etc and of course  since 2016 I
etc etc and of course since 2016 I
discovered  the cryptocurrency space
discovered the cryptocurrency space
initially with project like lisk and
arc  so very old project I would not
arc so very old project I would not
say I'm no g but close to
And  yeah, I discovered the blockchain
And yeah, I discovered the blockchain
more kind of patient and  since March
more kind of patient and since March
2023, I decided to start my
entrepreneurship journey  start to to
entrepreneurship journey start to to
build my first solution which was  a
build my first solution which was a
decentralized storage network.
trying to in fact  build something
trying to in fact build something
for fast data retrieval because if you
are trying if you already tried you know
fon iwave it's made for archival data
but once you want to do what storage and
to use it in a very frequent way is not
very compatible for this kind of usage.
So we wanted to step and to try to build
something there but you know building
solution going through for one year and
a half  we understood like we talking
a half we understood like we talking
with thousand of I was hundred and
thousand of funders with different
conferences par blockchain week ETH
progCC
token 2049 we discover quickly that yes
in fact flashback was born from an
simple problem it's a vunderlooking
problem everyone is facing that but
yeah if you want custom I have a small
presentation to help people  to go
presentation to help people to go
through.
>> Yeah let's let's go to the
>> Yeah let's let's go to the
presentation.
>> Okay.
okay just to be sure it's PDF.
Okay, it's loading.
Here it is.
Okay.
So, yes, Flashback is an AI power code
defecification solution.
So we want to be this unified interface
for developers and companies to be able
to diversify with centralized and
decentralized cloud providers. We want
make we want to make it cheaper, simpler
and more flexible to you to deeper your
data storage and in fact make the mic
cloud journey something that you can
start at the beginning of your
entrepreneurship or when you want to
start to build a project.
So in fact basically we have the large
vendors you know Google cloud AWS
Microsoft Azure they are fast and
reliable we know them well they have a
lot of stacks but the thing is that
they're very expensive I think we know
we as a developer we know this me of
if you want to justify your please you
just have to say AWS  it's very well
just have to say AWS it's very well
known  very difficult to understand
known very difficult to understand
all you are doing your expenses is and
at the same time most of the company
when they started to deploy with one
provider they depose so much solution on
the top that they have this fun looking
issue which is the major issue today
because it doesn't allow you to be great
easily to another provider so you're
stuck with the bunder
and the other side we have the
decentralized solutions more affordable
more privacy rel compliant
and low cost but think that fon for
virus. They're using the blockchain
technology and they're using a lot of
protocols and decentralized consensus
which makes the system more slower and
so at the same times very difficult for
developers to know the tax and or to
build efficiently with this solution.
So yeah for a company very quickly at
the beginning of the journey you can
spend hundred hours even more spend a
lot of money to deploy with one or two
or three different providers to build
your own infrastructure it can be up to
25% of your revenue you're going to
inject in fact to develop this at the
same time DP technologies very
interesting technologies but it's only
0.1% of the market size So I would say
that it's still a niche a niche that can
be explored by people but people do not
have the time to explore them. So it is
why we have decide to build flashback.
So with flashback you can do a cloud
divers it's cloud diversification
platform. So in fact you're going to
have three different advantages.
The first one you will be able to reduce
your cost because by deploying on
flashback what you can do is indeed play
with centralized providers quite
expensive but sometimes play with
decentralized providers you can have
this easy access to deep technologies.
We want to make it very easy like you
connect you deploy your bucket. You
connect your bucket with this
providers which are some specific
services on the top to deploy buckets.
And then of course we want to make the
mutual deployment seamless not only for
large companies but at some time for
startups for five coders anyone that
want to indeed start at the beginning of
the development of of their technology
to have a multi cloud approach and so to
not to get right the bundle looking
issue.
I think it's mainly for the main
presentation, but what I can do is
perhaps if it's okay to make like a
little live demo of the platform.
>> Sure, let's do that.
>> Okay, let's go. ,
>> deos is always fun.
>> Live demo is always fun, you know.
>> Yeah,
>> it's let's let's see what's u Okay, I
can share the screen and just get used
to the system.
, just to be sure that
I will share my work. Can I share my
work screen? Okay, let's go like this.
It would be easier because we're going
to jump between my spider and
Okay, great.
So,
this is the platform.
Very simple.  so with the platform of
Very simple. so with the platform of
course you can read about the platform.
So it's platform.flashback.tech tech and
of course you can learn more you have a
documentation I just open here the
documentation you can go through the
documentation
a lot of information about indeed what
we are building why we're building this
you have introduction storage want to
make it as transparent as as informative
as possible for people and of course you
have some guides to help you to create
your buckets  repository configure
your buckets repository configure
with the system uploaded on the files
So today we are focusing on the optic
storage which is the first layer. I will
say that any kind of cloud solution but
indeed in the future want to  have
indeed in the future want to have
more features according to what
developers can bring us what developers
can bring us in term of feedback and
information what they want to have in
this platform. So feel free as well to
to to give any kind of feedback. you
have a lot of API references if you are
more in depth of indeed interacted with
our flashback API.
So we we are trying to make it this as
flexible as as possible for developers
and indeed  being able to to to play
and indeed being able to to to play
with the platform in the best way. So
let let me
of course you can sign up  sign up
of course you can sign up sign up
with your  Google or GitHub account.
with your Google or GitHub account.
you couldn't create otherwise you know
email password it's okay and  of
email password it's okay and of
course login so in this case I'm going
to log with my Google account
just a few time
and here
of course
you have the platform so the the
platform
made we try to make things very simple
to understand what's going on at the
same time on the microord level. So the
idea is to abstract the fact that you're
going to work with different code
providers or to provide you all the
information to understand how you can
interact with different code providers.
So you have an overview page where
indeed you can have some links to the
documentation you need and to start your
journey with the platform.
some statistics  transfer packet
some statistics transfer packet
activity so the packet activity
is part of the cloud storage where we
have the repository and buckets so let's
see the buckets so I won't go deep in
term of what is a bucket I think people
who already are using no AWS or GCP
or some S3 compatible solution can
indeed understand what is a bucket so
here in fact it's with we are starting
kind of flashback buckets to connect
your buckets from AWS or GCP to  the
your buckets from AWS or GCP to the
flashback system. So very briefly I want
to go far but for instance if you are
using AWS you can have different
buckets. So here you have like three or
four different buckets and indeed you
can indeed find this bucket here. So two
connects.
Let's see if we can just cancel this one
for instance. Deleted
sure if it's going to work. Ah okay.
Thank you.
so  to connect a bucket you have
so to connect a bucket you have
different ways to connect your bucket.
You can connect your bucket with GCP AWS
Azure. So Azure is bit different. So
every provider has its own concept of
all you can store you can do object
storage with the cloud. So today we
tested these five providers. You can
find FCON. So we're using in fact
through FCON we're using AAV which is an
S3 compatible provider on the top of
Finch system is S3 compatible. But
feel free as well if you subscribe to
the platform and want to try it to test
the the other S3 compatible providers.
Yeah, you can try  I know there is
Yeah, you can try I know there is
some pinata stuff like this. So feel
free to get your API key stuff like this
and to set up your  system. But for
and to set up your system. But for
instance, if you're using
and then IWS, so let's see, I'm going to
give a label a label for my my bucket
and see  look. I'm going to create a
and see look. I'm going to create a
new bucket on my account. This way I can
show you that
can work. So let's create a bucket on my
AWS account. Oh, come on. You prepare
everything to be log and you're log out.
Huh?
So, let's see if we can go fast.
Sign inh.
No way. See later. Just want to skip for
now.
Of course, always set up a lot of
security
there. But yeah, let's create a bucket.
Okay. So, we're in the we're going to
create a bucket that say like the
thieves
AWS buckets
and PH
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah.
We're just so you can go through these
different stuff depending on you're
working with its but of course for us
and for the purpose of the demonstration
we're just going to create the bucket
directly. Here we are.
And so this field bucket I can just keep
the name here. So it's good to there is
some information to provide of course in
the platform to be able to set up your
buckets.  but you need let's say that
buckets. but you need let's say that
it's my VSS
buckets
fivebs
here some stuff.  so yeah if I show
here some stuff. so yeah if I show
you my secret and access key  the I'm
you my secret and access key the I'm
not sure I'm sharing my work screen,
right? So,
>> yeah, I can I can pause it for a
>> yeah, I can I can pause it for a
moment if you want.
>> Oh, yeah. Just if I can just this way.
Yeah, in this way I can just
perfect. Thank you, custom.
>> Thank you for my privacy.
>> so, let me find my keys and
>> so, let me find my keys and
information like this.
So there is a delegation system as well
where you can delegate instead of indeed
setting up the API keys and the secrets
where we have to store it and to split
it in different servers. You can use a
delegation system which allow you in
fact to not share with us this kind of
secrets or to keep a kind of  a better
secrets or to keep a kind of a better
security for you and your privacy.
Okay, just a minute. Just
this one.
Okay, I'm just going to copy paste. Just
one second.
Of course, my computer is slow.
Okay. And this one.
Here we are.
Okay, you can share again my screen. I
think you're custom.
>> So you see my screen normally.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. We So we said key secret key in
this way. I can create my packets and
too many requests. What did what did I
do?
okay. No worries. It's part of the test.
instant navigation. So what we're going
to do is that we are we're assuming that
you create your account. You can do that
with GCP as well.
So same for GCP you have all the
information to provide
and  according to what you you want to
and according to what you you want to
provide it's  I have a sound from my
provide it's I have a sound from my
side Kirsten I don't know if you have
the same
>> you have one
>> okay no I have a strange sound in my
>> okay no I have a strange sound in my
ear  anyway so depending on the
ear anyway so depending on the
different  information you have to
different information you have to
provide so Google cloud storage is
different information. So of course the
best is to refer to  create the bucket
best is to refer to create the bucket
for instance to get the information or
or to create  the bucket. So there
or to create the bucket. So there
some information to provide to connect
your bucket with with a solution.
So once you indeed provide  your
So once you indeed provide your
bucket so it's create your bucket you
have this status in fact we're using a
technology which called the bridge node.
You can as well find some information in
in the documentation. So we explain what
is the bridge node and  indeed the
is the bridge node and indeed the
purpose of the bridge node. So we have
some region we're covering. So the
bridge node is mainly in fact a system
that allow us to interact with the
different providers. It's our AP
technology and it's where in fact we can
get and collect different metrics of
your different buckets.
And so of course once you create  your
And so of course once you create your
buckets you can create what we call a
repo. So we have we we have created I
created this morning in different
buckets and of course you have this
repo. So when you want once you want to
create a repo you can call it any names
you want like repo 6 five like this you
can add one or two packets different
because let's GCP one create
okay
I should I should disconnect in fact I
think so
anyway so I continue
say that you just
>> yeah yeah it's anation but it's okay
it's part the
>> yeah it just went live. This this
this  this just went live and you
this this just went live and you
already told me that anyone who use it
you would appreciate feedback because it
is in the very early stage of being
live. So if if any of you try it out
I I know I know feedback is very
appreciated.
So these things happen.
>> Exactly. We have a button to give a lot
of feedback. So feel free  to give any
of feedback. So feel free to give any
kind of feedback.  indeed it we we
kind of feedback. indeed it we we
started to develop this in fact
just straight after the the so all this
concept  since February  and then
concept since February and then
we want to add this  stellar concept
we want to add this stellar concept
of the pin we have but we can come come
back on it later and so in fact when we
once you have a repo in fact and the
repo allow you to indeed have your
different buckets so you have the GCP
AWS buckets and you can create to API
keys. So here I create an API keys which
allow me in fact I will try to make it a
very simple demo if it's working
to test any storage but indeed for
instance if I want to store so I have a
repo  I provide some  access key
repo I provide some access key
secret key so of course I did it in in
JS and stuff like this and of course if
we can make this little example we are
going to transfer this genus bill.  I
going to transfer this genus bill. I
took the the text of the genus bill and
now we're going to create the genus bill
and copy eight.
so let's go.
Here we are. So right now we're storing
with an S3 endpoint to S3 buckets. So
we can see that we store something. We
can always check that is working. But if
we're looking the second AWS buckets, we
should probably see this. We have a lot
of test
P8 which is here.  but of course what
P8 which is here. but of course what
is very funny is to see if in our you
know Google buckets from an S S3
endpoint we can get something there. So
we're going to copy paste in term of
bucket name which is great because GCS
and  AWS is using some same
and AWS is using some same
wording.  so let me go on the
wording. so let me go on the
platform. You can find in fact duplicate
names directly on the report details.
So
this one is the GCP one. I'm going to
copy paste and
and here we are. Good. cut
and we're going to send this same copy
to the GCP. So we have an S3 end points
and we're sending to DCP. Okay, thanks
to in fact this bridge node which is
this address.
Okay, so we can check it is
do don't log out please.
Okay. And here we are. So of course
alpha vision  right now I just show
alpha vision right now I just show
you with an S3 endpoints to store with
GCS and AWS.  you can try with Azure
GCS and AWS. you can try with Azure
through the  the tutorials. You can
through the the tutorials. You can
indeed provide some feedback if it's
working or not. It's a truly alpha
vision. We're going to do a more stable
vision in September with indeed more
better  UI and  some improvements
better UI and some improvements
such as the private bridge nodes because
today the bridge nodes are hosted by
Flashback. But the idea indeed is to
to to let you to be able to deploy this
node in your tenants. And so to manage
your your strateging
my screen should work like this. Okay,
perfect. So it's globally all about
the presentation about this little live
demo with all the bugs we got.  but
demo with all the bugs we got. but
yeah, of course it's still an alpha
vision, an improved  beta vision
vision, an improved beta vision
for for for flashback and our road map
is very simple. We want indeed stabilize
all of this. It's always a complex
features. If it was simple  you will
features. If it was simple you will
have this everywhere. So we decided to
take this challenge and and thanks to
Stella, we we have this chance to indeed
push it  with Stella. We have this
push it with Stella. We have this
in the Stella community fund for the one
who are interesting. There is in fact a
second product and feature called the
flashback DP where in fact we as you can
see in fact with this platform you
interact with the platform with the
service level of cloud providers. So
of course it's still still the services
but if you want to interact with  I
but if you want to interact with I
would say data centers or in a higher
privacy model  you the the flashback
privacy model you the the flashback
DP will allow you in fact to interact
with the data center is going to ask is
hardware a software connect is bridge
nodes and then connect to the DBN
marketplace and so the stellar is
stellar is going to play a big key role
there because we're going to deploy all
smart contract with stellar to indeed
manage as marketplace as the same times
to   collect thanks to our bridge
to collect thanks to our bridge
nodes to our smart contracts all the
quality of services agreements and all
the metric related to that. So in the
marketplace what you're going to find as
a consumer you're going to connect to
the flashback DPIN platform. You're
going to find different offers from
different providers. You're going to
select the ones you want. Then these
ones are going to give you thanks to the
bridge note which is S3 compatible and
stuff like this. We believe that they're
going to use you know like system like
Mio. So they are going to give you an
API keys and stuff like this. So you can
already interact with in in S3 in a very
easy way and of course then once you
decide and you have the right agreement
with the storage providers we deploy all
of this in the smart contract and then
we operate and the bridge is going to
say okay this is the quality of services
of the storage with the consumer speed I
mean upload download speed latency stuff
like this and according to the quality
they agreed to increase the reputation
score of contract on earth as a
providers as well and then it's where
you start to have a bit of tokconomics
and stuff like this. So it's what we we
want to achieve with stellar  and
want to achieve with stellar and
normally we should have the first trench
one delivered within the next weeks. So
it's our next goal right now.
>> That's super exciting and and I I think
it's it's really interesting. It's an
interesting use case for for for smart
contracts. , just before we went on
the call here, we were talking about
there's a lot of focus on on DeFi
applications on on chain and and more
like working with tokenization and real
world assets and but but this is a very
to me is a very untra untraditional
blockchain project.  but but you
blockchain project. but but you
have taken some of the some of the
elements and applied that in in a
project that or a product that you don't
usually associate with with blockchain
and I think that's super interesting.
love to see more of that.  it's
love to see more of that. it's
it's interesting to see these kind of
use cases where you are thinking huh
that that was not obvious to use
blockchain in that way but it works
really well. So it broadens the the the
scope of what you can do and how you
perceive blockchain. So yeah, super
interesting.
>> Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Indeed, it's  I would say that for the
Indeed, it's I would say that for the
the ecosystem, if people are very
curious about this kind of technology,
it's the deep technology finally.  so
it's the deep technology finally. so
the central physical infrastructure
network some people are indeed deploying
their own blockchain and their own
protocol stuff like this. For us, we
prefer to use the existing existing
blockchain and to build in fact with
smart contract.  which is great with
smart contract. which is great with
stellar is in fact the flexibility. I
mean we first in Rust which we have a
preference in rest.  sorry Goland.
preference in rest. sorry Goland.
but yeah we have a preference in Rust.
the stellar kit kit is very nice and
and the thing is that with all the
programs you're doing like with the
university is great because indeed you
can  you can discover  the ecosystem
can you can discover the ecosystem
and to you can truly develop something
real.
>> Great. Yeah. I I don't know if
>> Great. Yeah. I I don't know if
there's any questions from anyone
watching  but  otherwise I say this
watching but otherwise I say this
was this is super great to see this
demo.  I I remember talking to you
demo. I I remember talking to you
about this about a year ago and I
thought this is an interesting use case.
I would love to see that  in real life
I would love to see that in real life
and here we are. You launched the the
first version and  yeah I I've been
first version and yeah I I've been
playing around with it and I think this
is this is super interesting and
everyone who plays around with it if
there's any if you find anything u I
think I I I know that that you're very u
you're very appreciative of of feedback.
It is the it is early days of the
platform. So yeah, please forward any
feedback you may have. I think we have a
question here from from Matias.
it also raises awareness from other
nonblockchain orient corpse and orgs to
start thinking of integrations to make
things more efficient. Yeah, I think
this is a good example of that.
>> Exactly. Exactly. And I I think we
blockchain is AI cloud storage it's very
demanding in term of  I think that
demanding in term of I think that
that's put for the blockchain. So it's
why it's maybe
comparative is not so developed
because there are still a lot of things
to do around blockchain in term of
scalability to make this kind of use
case more and more applicable with the
blockchain. Yeah, we see a lot of focus
on on AI not just on tooling but also
like  implementing
like implementing
both blockchain and AI in the same
application where it makes sense how are
you using AI. I know if I see on your
website you do mention AI. So in what
way are you using AI in your
application?
>> Yeah, so it's true that if people go
through our website we don't do not
mention so much about decentralized
technologies and stuff like this.  and
technologies and stuff like this. and
indeed because it's like for us a kind
of motor and people you know see the
design of the car and not specifically
the motor inside but  in our AI we are
the motor inside but in our AI we are
going to
I mean from the AI we're going to
develop we have different steps of the
we're going to have the first step is
could be a chatbased  recommendation
could be a chatbased recommendation
system because basically most of the
developers v coders even exper
people with expertise sometimes needs do
as well to to see how they can leverage
in the best way the platform. So we're
going to guide people so chart to
understand what they are looking for in
term of  multi cloud  configuration
term of multi cloud configuration
if they're looking for a micro
configuration if they have some credits
or we can help them to reduce the cost
and sometimes to take all the benefits
of this wide ecosystem which is
extremely fragmented today.  and so
extremely fragmented today. and so
it's going to be the first version of AI
and indeed with the use  AI needs data
and indeed with the use AI needs data
and so AI can't do a lot if you don't
have a lot of people using the platform
so it's why I'm pushing people to indeed
try and use the platform because this AI
is going to indeed learn more about your
patterns and more learn about all you
you can do what you can do with the
platform and then improve your
recommendation in real time saying like
oh yeah you are using this kind of
storage, you're doing everything in odd
storage with AWS. While in fact we can
see that 50% of your data are not used
in a frequent way. So you are just
being a lot perhaps you can just be
great part in StarJ or FON and reduce
the cost and so it's where the AI is
going to intervene in your journey with
the platform and what we want to achieve
with AI for decentralization.
It's you know decentralizing AI is
always complex is more perhaps  what
always complex is more perhaps what
we are looking at right now is perhaps
on the privacy level perhaps on
providing all the is doing certain
recommendation stuff like this  but
recommendation stuff like this but
right now the decentralized AI is still
kind of a baby in in the crypto space.
>> Yeah. I I I noticed something you said
you said that you're not really
advertising. you don't really write that
you that that you use blockchain. ,
and I think I think that's actually it
it's it's interesting because I see
blockchain as a technology just like
many other technologies. It's not
necessarily
that that the users don't really it's
it's information that if if you have a
really nice imple implementation that
doesn't really have where users don't
have to jump through a lot of hoops that
we usually see in a lot of blockchain
applications. It's not really relevant.
How you choose to solve the the problems
is is not you use technology. In this
case you use blockchain. I I I love to
see it be more normalized that
blockchain you don't need to you don't
need to put it up as a big banner you're
using blockchain like more normalized
using blockchain in different kinds of
applications so I think I think that's
that's interesting  yeah we have a
that's interesting yeah we have a
question more from Matias he asked what
you think about awe
>> a good question aweave is
>> a good question aweave is
extremely nice in term of  volat of
extremely nice in term of volat of
course it's made for this I mean it has
been designed for this I know that there
is they're doing more and more kind of
development on the top of the protocol
there right now to indeed diversify with
other
storage type like storage and or at
least storage  perhaps our wave is a
least storage perhaps our wave is a
bit expensive from my u point of view
specifically if you want to store NFTs
So you know very small portion of data
the cost for a terabytes
is very specific application at least
for the main the core protocol of code I
know that they're working on different
angle and trying to simplify or doing
what the cloud is doing finally
so I think the next evolution they're
going to do can be good  I think it's
going to do can be good I think it's
they got the same issue
that Fon got in the past because Fon did
this protocol very interesting consensus
by the way. I mean it's very the math
behind it is it's beautiful. I mean they
did something very very nice zero
knowledge applic
too too slow and  I don't know all
too too slow and I don't know all
people know about that but you have to
when you store your data with fon you
have to unlock a portion of gigabytes
you have to seal it and then in seal it
so this mechanism that prove that you're
somebody hosting your data at the same
time it's very slow to retrieve the data
so they have to work on a lot of systems
and you know to accept certain central
centralized process to make it faster
but anyway it's  it's part of the
but anyway it's it's part of the
blockchain journey I believe that more
and more the blockchain is going to
evolve the best it would be in term of u
decentralization for storage and
computing and more
>> great well thank you so much for joining
today  for me It's it's it's
today for me It's it's it's
interesting. It's it's it's been it's
been fun to be a tiny part of this
journey. I've followed you along the
lines since we on the side  since we
lines since we on the side since we
met  first time last year and see that
met first time last year and see that
you you launched the product and
yeah, it's great to see  so everyone
yeah, it's great to see so everyone
please go check it out and  yeah,
please go check it out and yeah,
thank you again for for joining this
week.
>> Thank you very much guys.
>> Thank you everyone for for joining.
we'll be back again next week.